# dsv

Simple tools for dealing with, converting and manipulating data in
Delimiter Separated Values format.

## Python library

The Python library 'dsv' is currently just a dialect for use with Python's own
'csv' library, and should work with the libraries in 'csvkit' (on PyPI) too.

    import sys
    import csv
    import dsv
    writer = csv.writer(sys.stdout, dialect=dsv.DSVDialect)
    reader = csv.reader(sys.stdin, dialect=dsv.DSVDialect)

## Utilities

### dsv2csv

Takes DSV on standard input, and outputs in Excel-format CSV
(Python's default dialect) on stdout.

    cat /etc/passwd | dsv2csv > passwd.csv

### dsvjoinline

    $ dsvjoinline fred 1000 1000 x "Fred Bloggs" /home/fred /bin/bash
    fred:1000:1000:x:Fred Bloggs:/home/fred:/bin/bash

dsvjoinline also takes two options:
    -e     Allows you to embed newline characters in fields, using "\n".
           Literal backslashes must also be escaped, thus: "\\"
           Long: --escape

           It's -e because that's the name of the switch the echo(1) command uses.

## Making useful CSV files

In order to use tools that manipulating CSV files, such as those provided by
'csvkit', you probably want to prepend a line.

Use '(dsvjoinline ... ; cat)' in a your pipeline for that.

Here's an example, which takes /etc/passwd, prepends a header row, converts it to
CSV then pretty-prints the contents in a grid on the terminal:

    cat /etc/passwd | (dsvjoinline username uid gid passwd fullname homedir shell ; cat) | dsv2csv | csvlook

## Why DSV?

DSV is simpler to parse than CSV, and simpler to read.

It uses a simple escape character to annul the effects of field and record
separators, rather than complex escaping rules.

In the simple case, where there aren't escaped versions, it's also simpler to use
Unix tools like cut(1), awk(1), sed(1) etc to parse these than CSV.

Besides, there are lots of files in this format, particularly on Unix and GNU systems:
 /etc/passwd
 /etc/group
 /etc/shadow
 /etc/inittab (for System V init)


# Copyright and License

Copyright (c) 2014 Nicholas Martin Booker <NMBooker@gmail.com>

License is the GPL version 2 or higher, see the LICENSE file for
the full license terms.
